Ensuring access to health services is the cornerstone of a successful health response. 
Any verbal or physical act of violence, obstruction or threat that interferes with the availability, access and delivery of such services is defined as
attack on health care by the World Health Organization (WHO). 

As shown in the infographic below, the nature of attacks on health care related to COVID-19 varies greatly across contexts and can range from the use of heavy weapons targeting health facilities to the stigmatization of health care workers. 
Ultimately – whether they take the form of a cyber attack or a physical assault – they deprive people of urgently needed care, endanger health care providers, and undermine health systems. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has put some health systems under immense pressure and stretched others beyond their capacity. 
As such, responding to this public health emergency and successfully minimizing its impact requires every health resource to be leveraged. 
Failure to protect health care in this rapidly changing context exposes health systems to critical gaps in services when they are most needed, and can have a long-lasting impact on the health and wellbeing of populations.

In fragile and conflict-affected countries, acts of violence during the COVID-19 pandemic have already deprived hundreds of medical services and severely hindered the response. 
Among others, the bombardment and destruction of a 400-bed facility in Libya1 (United Nations, 2020) further reduced the ability of health authorities and aid agencies to prepare for a full-blown epidemic.

In other countries where attacks on health care have been noticed, the COVID-19 pandemic has sometimes created hostile environments for health care providers who have reported incidents of violence, discrimination and harassment. 
Stigmatized as vectors of contagion in many countries, some have been assaulted, others were denied transport while commuting to work, and entire families were evicted from their homes. 
Furthermore, reports of attacks on medical vehicles carrying COVID-19 samples, on-duty COVID-19 drivers as well as patients are accumulating and raising concerns worldwide. 

However, attacks on health care not only have a direct impact on the ability of health systems to deliver services to those most in need, but also take a heavy toll on the psychosocial health of patients, critical health care providers on the frontline and their families. 
As those continue to be targeted by acts of violence during this public health emergency, health systems must – among other things – prepare for shortages of health care workers unwilling or unable to report to work due to unsafe environments or obstruction in their personal lives.
