User story for transferring money
Sending money through mobile apps can speed up the transaction process. Unlike checks, digital money transfers can be instantly processed, making it easier
to manage the user’s finances, and not cause delays, especially on large transactions.

Aside from the fast processing speed, money transfers through fintech apps also reduce service charges and paperwork. They can offer external bank transfers
with lower fees. Using the steps above, you’ll be able to generate a user story on money transfers just like this one:

. User story for withdrawing cash
Another innovation fintech offers is the convenience of withdrawing money online. Money can be withdrawn online if users have means of retrieving the physical
cash through cardless cash automated teller machines (ATM). But how do they work, you say?

Users are given a unique code via text message or a fintech mobile app that they can input into a cash machine to withdraw money without using their cards. 
This cardless technology can be drawn using quick response (QR) codes or near-field communication (NFC).

Check out this user story about withdrawing cash online.

User story for checking your account balance
It’s important for your customers to know how much money they have in their accounts and how much of their balance can be used for spending. So regularly
checking their accounts physically through the bank could bring so much hassle for them.

This is one of the biggest conveniences fintech resolves in their mobile apps. As long as users are enrolled in the digital services, they can easily check
their balances as easily as ABC.

User story for depositing money
Now, what if users want to add more money to their accounts without physically going to the bank? Well, fintech made this an easy peasy for customers too!

Through the mobile deposit feature, the user can take a picture of the check then upload it through the bank’s mobile app. Have this user story on mobile 
deposit feature:

 User story for contacting customer support services
Understanding the banking procedures can sometimes cause us to be at our wit’s end and this is where customer support services come in our way.

The main goal of good customer service is to prevent confusion and address additional requests from customers. But some customer queries can be repetitive,
hence answering them through artificial intelligence (AI) software can optimize agent availability and reduce waiting time.

 User story for paying bills
In all available ways to pay, there’s no doubt that mobile payments are the most convenient, secure, and the fastest in all. Mobile payments are also 
available 24/7 so your customers can immediately do these transactions any time of the day.

 User story for creating new account
And fortunately, opening a new bank account is now quick and easy, too! It only takes several minutes to save the customers a trip to the bank. 
Check out this user story example in opening a bank account online

Key Takeaways
Just as technology enhances, the fintech industry offers more variety of features designed to make financial transactions more convenient.
You see, integrating user stories in your fintech app development process can be easy, but creating user stories can be hard.
So here are things to take note of along the way.

Use the right user personas to discover the right stories. The fintech industry can have a lot of users so categorizing them will make your job easier.
Guide yourself in writing user stories through examples. This will help you know what to ask of your user story writers.
Make your fintech app development an address to user stories. Users come first. They are the stakeholders of your project so addressing their needs using
user stories is your way to your project’s favorable success.
