User Stories:-
Scenario 1: Successful authentication
When the user enters the correct email address and password and selects “sign-in” CTA

Then route the user to My Account home page and display signed-in status on header 

Scenario 2: Unsuccessful authentication
When the user enters an incorrect combination of email address and password and selects “sign-in” CTA

Then reset credentials fields and display an error message “Incorrect Credentials”

Scenario 3: Forgot credentials
When the user selects the “forgot credentials” CTA

Then route the user to the “forgot credentials” page

Scenario 4: Register
When the user selects the “register” CTA

Then route the user to the “registration” page

Rules-Driven Stories
There are also stories where the focus needs to be on the business rules. The user actions do not have much relevance within the scope of the story (there could be
related stories where the user action is in focus).

For example: “As a customer searching for a product, I need to be presented the most appropriate choices, so that I am likely to find what I am looking for.”

This story is about the business rules to be built to support search. There would be other stories to cover the user behavior around using the ‘search’ function. 

Thus, the acceptance criteria for this story would look like:

1) For finding the products that match the search criteria, use the following attributes in the order listed below.

Product name
Product variation name 
Product short description
Product long description
Product reviews
2) For finding the categories that match the search criteria, use the following attributes in the order listed below.

Category name
Category short description
3) Both full and partial match should be attempted.

4) For a partial match, at least 3 characters should match.

5) Ignore all standard stop words while attempting a match.

6) Use synonyms to find a match. Refer to <link> for the list of synonyms.

7) A minimum of 3 characters needs to be entered to find a match.

Example 1) Credit card authorization: “As a customer about to make a purchase, I need to be able to submit my credit card details and get authorization so that
I can complete my checkout.”

Acceptance criteria:

Scenario 1: Successful authorization
When the user enters the credit-card-number, year-and-month-of-expiry and cvv and selects “sign-in” CTA and authorization is successful

Then display “payment confirmation” message and persist authorization token for future reference (i.e, for sending for settlement)

Scenario 2: Unsuccessful authorization - Incorrect card details
When the user enters incorrect credit-card-number or year-and-month-of-expiry or cvv and selects “sign-in” CTA and authorization fails

Then display “payment failed” error-message and reset the payment fields

Scenario 3: Unsuccessful authorization - Insufficient balance
When the user enters the correct credit-card-number, year-and-month-of-expiry, cvv of a card with insufficient balance and selects “sign-in” CTA and authorization
fails

Then display “payment failed” error-message and reset the payment fields

Scenario 4: Unsuccessful authorization - Fraud
When the user enters the credit-card-number, year-and-month-of-expiry, cvv and selects “sign-in” CTA and authorization fails due to suspected fraud

Then display “error page” and keep the order on hold for ‘suspected fraud’

Scenario 5: Payment gateway connectivity problem
When the user enters the credit-card-number, year-and-month-of-expiry, cvv and selects “sign-in” CTA and connection to payment gateway fails

Then display “call customer service” message and reset the payment fields

Example 2) Order submission for fulfillment: “As a customer who made a purchase, I need to get my order fulfilled correctly in a timely manner so that I don’t
have to follow-up via customer service.”

Acceptance criteria:

1) Send order details to the fulfillment system within 30 minutes of customer completing the checkout process

2) Send all required data so that picking, packing, settlement and shipping can happen for all order scenarios. Consider the following order scenarios:

Order placed by a guest user
Order placed by a registered user
Order placed by a registered user with a loyalty account
Order with just one item
Order with multiple items
Order with at least one item with quantity >1
Order with payment via credit card
Order with payment via gift card
Order with payment via both credit card and gift card
Order where shipping and billing address are same
Order where shipping and billing address are not the same
Order with multiple shipping addresses
Order with express shipping
Order with standard shipping
Order with free shipping
Order with shipping to a state with no sales tax
Order with at least one item with a sale price
Order with an order-level promotion
Order with an item-level promotion

In Conclusion
The finer points of writing user stories can at first seem overwhelming, but with practice, this agile project mentality becomes easier to grasp. Additionally,
user story templates can help you if you’re first starting out.
